== Simple Playlist/Songs API (Songer)

This rails app makes use of the builtin functionality and versatility of rails to serve both HTML and JSON responses in a RESTful manner.

=== The Models
There are 2 models:

        Playlists
        Songs
	
Playlists have_many :songs and songs belongs_to :playlists.

The songs resource is nested into playlists to reflect the association between playlists and songs. The association between songs and playlists is setup so that deleting a playlist also deletes the songs associated with that playlist.

=== The Controllers
Each model has full CRUD functionality (Create, Read, Update, Destroy). 
In the controllers, getting the playlist/song object has been abstracted to two functions, getPlaylist and getSong. These functions are called from a before_filter in the actions that require them to DRY up code.

The playlist controller has some additional parameters for the 'Show' action that includes the associated songs so a separate call to the songs controller is not needed.

=== The Views
The views are pretty standard. The HTML forms for playlists/songs have been placed in a view 'partial' to maintain DRY code. The view templates for songs include an @playlist instance variable so that nested resource links can be correctly generated.

=== External Libraries/Resources
The only GEM not included by default with a new Rails project is the Unicorn gem. Unicorn allows a single ruby process to be split up into multiple pieces (in this case 3) which allows it to handle more requests at once.

I could have easily used Thin in place of the standard WEBrick server, but I've used Unicorn before and like its performance.

=== Web & Database Hosting
The API is currently hosted on Heroku's Cedar stack can be found at http://songer.herokuapp.com.
I used ClearDB to host a small MySQL DBaaS instance to power the app's backend.

=== List of RESTful resources

            playlist_songs GET    /playlists/:playlist_id/songs(.:format)          songs#index
                           POST   /playlists/:playlist_id/songs(.:format)          songs#create
         new_playlist_song GET    /playlists/:playlist_id/songs/new(.:format)      songs#new
        edit_playlist_song GET    /playlists/:playlist_id/songs/:id/edit(.:format) songs#edit
             playlist_song GET    /playlists/:playlist_id/songs/:id(.:format)      songs#show
                           PUT    /playlists/:playlist_id/songs/:id(.:format)      songs#update
                           DELETE /playlists/:playlist_id/songs/:id(.:format)      songs#destroy
                 playlists GET    /playlists(.:format)                             playlists#index
                           POST   /playlists(.:format)                             playlists#create
              new_playlist GET    /playlists/new(.:format)                         playlists#new
             edit_playlist GET    /playlists/:id/edit(.:format)                    playlists#edit
                  playlist GET    /playlists/:id(.:format)                         playlists#show
                           PUT    /playlists/:id(.:format)                         playlists#update
                           DELETE /playlists/:id(.:format)                         playlists#destroy
